ids = كشف التسل (intrusion detection system)
ids = ينبهك عن نمط حركه لمرور 
IDS - IPS - NIDS - NIPS  كلهم يعملون علئ Rules
IDS يراقب الTRAFFIC ويحلل  الشبكه
IDS alerts you and Log the traffic IDS مايرفض الحزم او يرميها 
IPS (intrusion prevention system) 


Intrusion Detection System (IDS)
نظام كشف التسلل (IDS)

Intrusion Prevention System (IPS)
نظام منع التسلل (IPS)

Network Intrusion Prevention System (NIPS) - NIPS monitors the traffic flow from various areas of the network. The aim is to protect the traffic on the entire subnet. If a signature is identified, the connection is terminated

نظام منع اختراق الشبكة (NIPS) - يراقب NIPS تدفق حركة المرور من مناطق مختلفة من الشبكة. الهدف هو حماية حركة المرور على الشبكة الفرعية بأكملها. إذا تم تحديد توقيع، يتم إنهاء الاتصال.


sudo snort -c "/etc/snort/snort.conf" -v for traffic

sudo snort -i eth0 -v (for traffic)
sudo snort -i eth0 -d (for more detiles)
sudo snort -i eth0 -e (for link layer header جميع التفاصيل  )
sudo snort -e (header of the packets)
sudo snort -X (dump full packet mode)
sudo snort -X  -l . (save results)
sudo snort -r snort.log.1718103747  (read the log)
sudo snort -v -l . (for traffic and save the log file)
sudo snort -r snort.log.1718104362 'port 80' (filtter the result)
sudo snort  -X -l . (full dump packt with save log )
sudo snrt -dev -K ASCII -l . (for read from humen)


https://motasem-notes.net/snort-ids-ips-complete-practical-guide-tryhackme/


Parameter البارامتر	Description وصف
-v	Verbose. Display the TCP/IP output in the console.
مطول. عرض إخراج TCP/IP في وحدة التحكم.
-d	Display the packet data (payload).
عرض حزم البيانات (الحمولة).
-e	Display the link-layer (TCP/IP/UDP/ICMP) headers. 
عرض رؤوس طبقة الارتباط (TCP / IP / UDP / ICMP).
-X	Display the full packet details in HEX.
عرض تفاصيل الحزمة الكاملة في HEX.
-i	This parameter helps to define a specific network interface to listen/sniff. Once you have multiple interfaces, you can choose a specific interface to sniff. 
تساعد هذه المعلمة في تحديد واجهة شبكة معينة للاستماع / الشم. بمجرد أن يكون لديك واجهات متعددة ، يمكنك اختيار واجهة معينة لشمها.


sudo chown -R ubuntu:ubuntu 145.254.160.237



